README.md, before:

<p align="center">
    <a href="http://kitura.io/">
        <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/IBM-Swift/Kitura/master/Sources/Kitura/resources/kitura-bird.svg?sanitize=true" height="100" alt="Kitura">
    </a>
</p>


<p align="center">
    <a href="https://cloud.ibm.com">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/IBM%20Cloud-powered-blue.svg" alt="IBM Cloud">
    </a>
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/platform-swift-lightgrey.svg?style=flat" alt="platform">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/os-macOS-green.svg?style=flat" alt="macOS">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/os-linux-green.svg?style=flat" alt="Linux">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/license-Apache2-blue.svg?style=flat" alt="Apache 2">
    <a href="http://swift-at-ibm-slack.mybluemix.net/">
    <img src="http://swift-at-ibm-slack.mybluemix.net/badge.svg" alt="Slack Status">
    </a>
</p>


# Create and deploy a Swift Kitura Application

> We have applications available for [Node.js Express](https://github.com/IBM/node-express-app), [Go Gin](https://github.com/IBM/go-gin-app), [Python Flask](https://github.com/IBM/python-flask-app), [Python Django](https://github.com/IBM/python-django-app), [Java Spring](https://github.com/IBM/java-spring-app), [Java Liberty](https://github.com/IBM/java-liberty-app), and [Swift Kitura](https://github.com/IBM/swift-kitura-app).

In this sample application, you will create a basic web application using [Kitura](https://www.kitura.io/) to serve web pages in Swift, complete with standard best practices, including a health check.

## Steps

You can [deploy this application to IBM Cloud](https://cloud.ibm.com/developer/appservice/starter-kits/swift-kitura-app) or [build it locally](#building-locally) by cloning this repo first. Once your app is live, you can access the `/health` endpoint to build out your cloud native application.

### Deploying to IBM Cloud

<p align="center">
    <a href="https://cloud.ibm.com/developer/appservice/starter-kits/swift-kitura-app">
    <img src="https://cloud.ibm.com/devops/setup/deploy/button_x2.png" alt="Deploy to IBM Cloud">
    </a>
</p>

Click **Deploy to IBM Cloud** to deploy this same application to IBM Cloud. This option creates a deployment pipeline, complete with a hosted GitLab project and a DevOps toolchain. You can deploy your app to Cloud Foundry, a Kubernetes cluster, or a Red Hat OpenShift cluster. OpenShift is available only through a standard cluster, which requires you to have a billable account.

[IBM Cloud DevOps](https://www.ibm.com/cloud/devops) services provides toolchains as a set of tool integrations that support development, deployment, and operations tasks inside IBM Cloud.

### Building Locally

To get started building this application locally, you can either run the application natively or use the [IBM Cloud Developer Tools](https://cloud.ibm.com/docs/cli?topic=cloud-cli-getting-started) for containerization and easy deployment to IBM Cloud.

#### Native Application Development

- On Linux, install the [Swift toolchain](https://swift.org/) version _v5.1_.
- On macOS, install [Xcode](https://developer.apple.com/download) _v11+_

In the root of this project, first build the application using `swift build`. `swift run` will launch the application and render it at `http://localhost:8080`.

#### IBM Cloud Developer Tools

Install [IBM Cloud Developer Tools](https://cloud.ibm.com/docs/cli?topic=cloud-cli-getting-started) on your machine by running the following command:
```
curl -sL https://ibm.biz/idt-installer | bash
```

Create an application on IBM Cloud by running:

```bash
ibmcloud dev create
```

This will create and download a starter application with the necessary files needed for local development and deployment.

Your application will be compiled with Docker containers. To compile and run your app, run:

```bash
ibmcloud dev build
ibmcloud dev run
```

This will launch your application locally. When you are ready to deploy to IBM Cloud on Cloud Foundry or Kubernetes, run one of the commands:

```bash
ibmcloud dev deploy -t buildpack // to Cloud Foundry
ibmcloud dev deploy -t container // to K8s cluster
```

You can build and debug your app locally with:

```bash
ibmcloud dev build --debug
ibmcloud dev debug
```

## Next Steps
* Learn more about augmenting your Swift applications on IBM Cloud with the [Swift Programming Guide](https://cloud.ibm.com/docs/swift?topic=swift-getting-started).
* Explore [Kitura.io](https://www.kitura.io/) for more resources about the Kitura framework.
* Join the [Swift@IBM slack](http://swift-at-ibm-slack.mybluemix.net/) to get help with your projects.
* Explore other [sample applications](https://cloud.ibm.com/developer/appservice/starter-kits) on IBM Cloud.

## License

This sample application is licensed under the Apache License, Version 2. Separate third-party code objects invoked within this code pattern are licensed by their respective providers pursuant to their own separate licenses. Contributions are subject to the [Developer Certificate of Origin, Version 1.1](https://developercertificate.org/) and the [Apache License, Version 2](https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.txt).

[Apache License FAQ](https://www.apache.org/foundation/license-faq.html#WhatDoesItMEAN)

Commit message:

experience test readme and refactor

README.md, after:

<p align="center">
    <a href="http://kitura.io/">
        <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/IBM-Swift/Kitura/master/Sources/Kitura/resources/kitura-bird.svg?sanitize=true" height="100" alt="Kitura">
    </a>
</p>


<p align="center">
    <a href="https://cloud.ibm.com">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/IBM%20Cloud-powered-blue.svg" alt="IBM Cloud">
    </a>
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/platform-swift-lightgrey.svg?style=flat" alt="platform">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/os-macOS-green.svg?style=flat" alt="macOS">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/os-linux-green.svg?style=flat" alt="Linux">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/license-Apache2-blue.svg?style=flat" alt="Apache 2">
    <a href="http://swift-at-ibm-slack.mybluemix.net/">
    <img src="http://swift-at-ibm-slack.mybluemix.net/badge.svg" alt="Slack Status">
    </a>
</p>


# Create and deploy a Swift Kitura Application

> We have applications available for [Node.js Express](https://github.com/IBM/node-express-app), [Go Gin](https://github.com/IBM/go-gin-app), [Python Flask](https://github.com/IBM/python-flask-app), [Python Django](https://github.com/IBM/python-django-app), [Java Spring](https://github.com/IBM/java-spring-app), [Java Liberty](https://github.com/IBM/java-liberty-app), and [Swift Kitura](https://github.com/IBM/swift-kitura-app).

In this sample application, you will create a basic web application using [Kitura](https://www.kitura.io/) to serve web pages in Swift, complete with standard best practices, including a health check.

## Steps

You can [deploy this application to IBM Cloud](https://cloud.ibm.com/developer/appservice/starter-kits/swift-kitura-app) or [build it locally](#building-locally) by cloning this repo first. Once your app is live, you can access the `/health` endpoint to build out your cloud native application.

### Deploying to IBM Cloud

<p align="center">
    <a href="https://cloud.ibm.com/developer/appservice/starter-kits/swift-kitura-app">
    <img src="https://cloud.ibm.com/devops/setup/deploy/button_x2.png" alt="Deploy to IBM Cloud">
    </a>
</p>

Click **Deploy to IBM Cloud** to deploy this same application to IBM Cloud. This option creates a deployment pipeline, complete with a hosted GitLab project and a DevOps toolchain. You can deploy your app to Cloud Foundry, a Kubernetes cluster, or a Red Hat OpenShift cluster. OpenShift is available only through a standard cluster, which requires you to have a billable account.

[IBM Cloud DevOps](https://www.ibm.com/cloud/devops) services provides toolchains as a set of tool integrations that support development, deployment, and operations tasks inside IBM Cloud.

### Building Locally

To get started building this application locally, you can either run the application natively or use the [IBM Cloud Developer Tools](https://cloud.ibm.com/docs/cli?topic=cloud-cli-getting-started) for containerization and easy deployment to IBM Cloud.

#### Native Application Development

- On Linux, install the [Swift toolchain](https://swift.org/) version _v5.1_.
- On macOS, install [Xcode](https://developer.apple.com/download) _v11+_

In the root of this project, first build the application using `swift build`. `swift run` will launch the application and render it at `http://localhost:8080`. You can also verify the state of your locally running application using the Selenium UI test script included in the scripts/ directory.

#### IBM Cloud Developer Tools

Install [IBM Cloud Developer Tools](https://cloud.ibm.com/docs/cli?topic=cloud-cli-getting-started) on your machine by running the following command:
```
curl -sL https://ibm.biz/idt-installer | bash
```

Create an application on IBM Cloud by running:

```bash
ibmcloud dev create
```

This will create and download a starter application with the necessary files needed for local development and deployment.

Your application will be compiled with Docker containers. To compile and run your app, run:

```bash
ibmcloud dev build
ibmcloud dev run
```

This will launch your application locally. When you are ready to deploy to IBM Cloud on Cloud Foundry or Kubernetes, run one of the commands:

```bash
ibmcloud dev deploy -t buildpack // to Cloud Foundry
ibmcloud dev deploy -t container // to K8s cluster
```

You can build and debug your app locally with:

```bash
ibmcloud dev build --debug
ibmcloud dev debug
```

## Next Steps
* Learn more about augmenting your Swift applications on IBM Cloud with the [Swift Programming Guide](https://cloud.ibm.com/docs/swift?topic=swift-getting-started).
* Explore [Kitura.io](https://www.kitura.io/) for more resources about the Kitura framework.
* Join the [Swift@IBM slack](http://swift-at-ibm-slack.mybluemix.net/) to get help with your projects.
* Explore other [sample applications](https://cloud.ibm.com/developer/appservice/starter-kits) on IBM Cloud.

## License

This sample application is licensed under the Apache License, Version 2. Separate third-party code objects invoked within this code pattern are licensed by their respective providers pursuant to their own separate licenses. Contributions are subject to the [Developer Certificate of Origin, Version 1.1](https://developercertificate.org/) and the [Apache License, Version 2](https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.txt).

[Apache License FAQ](https://www.apache.org/foundation/license-faq.html#WhatDoesItMEAN)
